docs/articles_en/about-openvino/performance-benchmarks.rst, before:

.. {#openvino_docs_performance_benchmarks}

Performance Benchmarks
======================

.. meta::
   :description: Use the benchmark results for Intel® Distribution of OpenVINO™
                 toolkit, that may help you decide what hardware to use or how
                 to plan the workload.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   performance-benchmarks/performance-benchmarks-faq
   OpenVINO Accuracy <performance-benchmarks/model-accuracy-int8-fp32>
   performance-benchmarks/getting-performance-numbers


This page presents benchmark results for
`Intel® Distribution of OpenVINO™ toolkit <https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/tools/openvino-toolkit.html>`__
and :doc:`OpenVINO Model Server <../ovms_what_is_openvino_model_server>`, for a representative
selection of public neural networks and Intel® devices. The results may help you decide which
hardware to use in your applications or plan AI workload for the hardware you have already
implemented in your solutions. Click the buttons below to see the chosen benchmark data.

.. grid:: 1 1 2 2
   :gutter: 4

   .. grid-item::

      .. button-link:: #
         :class: ov-toolkit-benchmark-results
         :color: primary
         :outline:
         :expand:

         :material-regular:`bar_chart;1.4em` OpenVINO Benchmark Graphs

   .. grid-item::

      .. button-link:: #
         :class: ovms-toolkit-benchmark-results
         :color: primary
         :outline:
         :expand:

         :material-regular:`bar_chart;1.4em` OVMS Benchmark Graphs


Please visit the tabs below for more information on key performance indicators and workload parameters.

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: Throughput
      :sync: throughput

      Measures the number of inferences delivered within a latency threshold
      (for example, number of Frames Per Second - FPS). When deploying a system with
      deep learning inference, select the throughput that delivers the best trade-off
      between latency and power for the price and performance that meets your requirements.

   .. tab-item:: Value
      :sync: value

      While throughput is important, what is more critical in edge AI deployments is
      the performance efficiency or performance-per-cost. Application performance in
      throughput per dollar of system cost is the best measure of value. The value KPI is
      calculated as “Throughput measured as inferences per second / price of inference engine”.
      This means for a 2 socket system 2x the price of a CPU is used. Prices are as per
      date of benchmarking and sources can be found as links in the Hardware Platforms (PDF)
      description below.

   .. tab-item:: Efficiency
      :sync: efficiency

      System power is a key consideration from the edge to the data center. When selecting
      deep learning solutions, power efficiency (throughput/watt) is a critical factor to
      consider. Intel designs provide excellent power efficiency for running deep learning
      workloads. The efficiency KPI is calculated as “Throughput measured as inferences per
      second / TDP of inference engine”. This means for a 2 socket system 2x the power
      dissipation (TDP) of a CPU is used. TDP-values are as per date of benchmarking and sources
      can be found as links in the Hardware Platforms (PDF) description below.

   .. tab-item:: Latency
      :sync: latency

      This measures the synchronous execution of inference requests and is reported in
      milliseconds. Each inference request (for example: preprocess, infer, postprocess) is
      allowed to complete before the next is started. This performance metric is relevant in
      usage scenarios where a single image input needs to be acted upon as soon as possible. An
      example would be the healthcare sector where medical personnel only request analysis of a
      single ultra sound scanning image or in real-time or near real-time applications for
      example an industrial robot's response to actions in its environment or obstacle avoidance
      for autonomous vehicles.

   .. tab-item:: Workload Parameters
      :sync: workloadparameters

      The workload parameters affect the performance results of the different models we use for
      benchmarking. Image processing models have different image size definitions and the
      Natural Language Processing models have different max token list lengths. All these can
      be found in detail in the :doc:`FAQ section <performance-benchmarks/performance-benchmarks-faq>`.
      All models are executed using a batch size of 1. Below are the parameters for the GenAI
      models we display.

      * Input tokens: 1024,
      * Output tokens: 128,
      * number of beams: 1

      For text to image:

      * iteration steps: 20,
      * image size (HxW): 256 x 256,
      * input token length: 1024 (the tokens for GenAI models are in English).


.. raw:: html

   <h2>Platforms, Configurations, Methodology</h2>

For a listing of all platforms and configurations used for testing, refer to the following:

.. grid:: 1 1 2 2
   :gutter: 4

   .. grid-item::

      .. button-link:: ../_static/benchmarks_files/OV-2024.1-platform_list.pdf
         :color: primary
         :outline:
         :expand:

         :material-regular:`download;1.5em` Click for Hardware Platforms [PDF]

      .. button-link:: ../_static/benchmarks_files/OV-2024.1-system-info-detailed.xlsx
         :color: primary
         :outline:
         :expand:

         :material-regular:`download;1.5em` Click for Configuration Details [XLSX]

      .. button-link:: ../_static/benchmarks_files/OV-2024.1-Performance-Data.xlsx
         :color: primary
         :outline:
         :expand:

         :material-regular:`download;1.5em` Click for Performance Data [XLSX]


The OpenVINO benchmark setup includes a single system with OpenVINO™, as well as the benchmark
application installed. It measures the time spent on actual inference (excluding any pre or post
processing) and then reports on the inferences per second (or Frames Per Second).

OpenVINO™ Model Server (OVMS) employs the Intel® Distribution of OpenVINO™ toolkit runtime
libraries and exposes a set of models via a convenient inference API over gRPC or HTTP/REST.
Its benchmark results are measured with the configuration of multiple-clients-single-server,
using two hardware platforms connected by ethernet. Network bandwidth depends on both, platforms
and models under investigation. It is set not to be a bottleneck for workload intensity. The
connection is dedicated only to measuring performance.

.. dropdown:: See more details about OVMS benchmark setup

   The benchmark setup for OVMS consists of four main parts:

   .. image:: ../assets/images/performance_benchmarks_ovms_02.png
      :alt: OVMS Benchmark Setup Diagram

   * **OpenVINO™ Model Server** is launched as a docker container on the server platform and it
     listens to (and answers) requests from clients. OpenVINO™ Model Server is run on the same
     system as the OpenVINO™ toolkit benchmark application in corresponding benchmarking. Models
     served by OpenVINO™ Model Server are located in a local file system mounted into the docker
     container. The OpenVINO™ Model Server instance communicates with other components via ports
     over a dedicated docker network.

   * **Clients** are run in separated physical machine referred to as client platform. Clients
     are implemented in Python3 programming language based on TensorFlow* API and they work as
     parallel processes. Each client waits for a response from OpenVINO™ Model Server before it
     will send a new next request. The role played by the clients is also verification of
     responses.

   * **Load balancer** works on the client platform in a docker container. HAProxy is used for
     this purpose. Its main role is counting of requests forwarded from clients to OpenVINO™
     Model Server, estimating its latency, and sharing this information by Prometheus service.
     The reason of locating the load balancer on the client site is to simulate real life
     scenario that includes impact of physical network on reported metrics.

   * **Execution Controller** is launched on the client platform. It is responsible for
     synchronization of the whole measurement process, downloading metrics from the load
     balancer, and presenting the final report of the execution.



.. raw:: html

   <h2>Test performance yourself</h2>

You can also test performance for your system yourself, following the guide on
:doc:`getting performance numbers <performance-benchmarks/getting-performance-numbers>`.

Performance of a particular application can also be evaluated virtually using
`Intel® DevCloud for the Edge <https://devcloud.intel.com/edge/>`__.
It is a remote development environment with access to Intel® hardware and the latest versions
of the Intel® Distribution of the OpenVINO™ Toolkit. To learn more about it, visit
`the website <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/devcloud/edge/overview.html>`__
or
`create an account <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/secure/forms/devcloud-enrollment/account-provisioning.html>`__.


.. raw:: html

   <h2>Disclaimers</h2>


* Intel® Distribution of OpenVINO™ toolkit performance results are based on release
  2024.1, as of April 17, 2024.

* OpenVINO Model Server performance results are based on release
  2024.0, as of March 15, 2024.

The results may not reflect all publicly available updates. Intel technologies' features and
benefits depend on system configuration and may require enabled hardware, software, or service
activation. Learn more at intel.com, or from the OEM or retailer.

See configuration disclosure for details. No product can be absolutely secure.
Performance varies by use, configuration and other factors. Learn more at
`www.intel.com/PerformanceIndex <https://www.intel.com/PerformanceIndex>`__.
Your costs and results may vary.
Intel optimizations, for Intel compilers or other products, may not optimize to the same degree
for non-Intel products.








.. raw:: html

   <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/css/benchmark-banner.css">

.. container:: benchmark-banner

   Results may vary. For more information, see
   :doc:`F.A.Q. <./performance-benchmarks/performance-benchmarks-faq>`
   See :doc:`Legal Information <./additional-resources/legal-information>`.

Commit message:

[DOCS] benchmark data for LLM master (#24834)

docs/articles_en/about-openvino/performance-benchmarks.rst, after:

Performance Benchmarks
======================

.. meta::
   :description: Use the benchmark results for Intel® Distribution of OpenVINO™
                 toolkit, that may help you decide what hardware to use or how
                 to plan the workload.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   performance-benchmarks/generativeAI-benchmarks
   performance-benchmarks/performance-benchmarks-faq
   OpenVINO Accuracy <performance-benchmarks/model-accuracy-int8-fp32>
   performance-benchmarks/getting-performance-numbers


This page presents benchmark results for
`Intel® Distribution of OpenVINO™ toolkit <https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/tools/openvino-toolkit.html>`__
and :doc:`OpenVINO Model Server <../ovms_what_is_openvino_model_server>`, for a representative
selection of public neural networks and Intel® devices. The results may help you decide which
hardware to use in your applications or plan AI workload for the hardware you have already
implemented in your solutions. Click the buttons below to see the chosen benchmark data.
For more detailed view of performance numbers for generative AI models, check the
:doc:`Generative AI Benchmark Results <./performance-benchmarks/generativeAI-benchmarks>`

.. grid:: 1 1 2 2
   :gutter: 4

   .. grid-item::

      .. button-link:: #
         :class: ov-toolkit-benchmark-results
         :color: primary
         :outline:
         :expand:

         :material-regular:`bar_chart;1.4em` OpenVINO Benchmark Graphs

   .. grid-item::

      .. button-link:: #
         :class: ovms-toolkit-benchmark-results
         :color: primary
         :outline:
         :expand:

         :material-regular:`bar_chart;1.4em` OVMS Benchmark Graphs


Please visit the tabs below for more information on key performance indicators and workload parameters.

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: Throughput
      :sync: throughput

      Measures the number of inferences delivered within a latency threshold
      (for example, number of Frames Per Second - FPS). When deploying a system with
      deep learning inference, select the throughput that delivers the best trade-off
      between latency and power for the price and performance that meets your requirements.

   .. tab-item:: Value
      :sync: value

      While throughput is important, what is more critical in edge AI deployments is
      the performance efficiency or performance-per-cost. Application performance in
      throughput per dollar of system cost is the best measure of value. The value KPI is
      calculated as “Throughput measured as inferences per second / price of inference engine”.
      This means for a 2 socket system 2x the price of a CPU is used. Prices are as per
      date of benchmarking and sources can be found as links in the Hardware Platforms (PDF)
      description below.

   .. tab-item:: Efficiency
      :sync: efficiency

      System power is a key consideration from the edge to the data center. When selecting
      deep learning solutions, power efficiency (throughput/watt) is a critical factor to
      consider. Intel designs provide excellent power efficiency for running deep learning
      workloads. The efficiency KPI is calculated as “Throughput measured as inferences per
      second / TDP of inference engine”. This means for a 2 socket system 2x the power
      dissipation (TDP) of a CPU is used. TDP-values are as per date of benchmarking and sources
      can be found as links in the Hardware Platforms (PDF) description below.

   .. tab-item:: Latency
      :sync: latency

      This measures the synchronous execution of inference requests and is reported in
      milliseconds. Each inference request (for example: preprocess, infer, postprocess) is
      allowed to complete before the next is started. This performance metric is relevant in
      usage scenarios where a single image input needs to be acted upon as soon as possible. An
      example would be the healthcare sector where medical personnel only request analysis of a
      single ultra sound scanning image or in real-time or near real-time applications for
      example an industrial robot's response to actions in its environment or obstacle avoidance
      for autonomous vehicles.

   .. tab-item:: Workload Parameters
      :sync: workloadparameters

      The workload parameters affect the performance results of the different models we use for
      benchmarking. Image processing models have different image size definitions and the
      Natural Language Processing models have different max token list lengths. All these can
      be found in detail in the :doc:`FAQ section <performance-benchmarks/performance-benchmarks-faq>`.
      All models are executed using a batch size of 1. Below are the parameters for the GenAI
      models we display.

      * Input tokens: 1024,
      * Output tokens: 128,
      * number of beams: 1

      For text to image:

      * iteration steps: 20,
      * image size (HxW): 256 x 256,
      * input token length: 1024 (the tokens for GenAI models are in English).


.. raw:: html

   <h2>Platforms, Configurations, Methodology</h2>

For a listing of all platforms and configurations used for testing, refer to the following:

.. grid:: 1 1 2 2
   :gutter: 4

   .. grid-item::

      .. button-link:: ../_static/benchmarks_files/OV-2024.1-platform_list.pdf
         :color: primary
         :outline:
         :expand:

         :material-regular:`download;1.5em` Click for Hardware Platforms [PDF]

      .. button-link:: ../_static/benchmarks_files/OV-2024.1-system-info-detailed.xlsx
         :color: primary
         :outline:
         :expand:

         :material-regular:`download;1.5em` Click for Configuration Details [XLSX]

      .. button-link:: ../_static/benchmarks_files/OV-2024.1-Performance-Data.xlsx
         :color: primary
         :outline:
         :expand:

         :material-regular:`download;1.5em` Click for Performance Data [XLSX]


The OpenVINO benchmark setup includes a single system with OpenVINO™, as well as the benchmark
application installed. It measures the time spent on actual inference (excluding any pre or post
processing) and then reports on the inferences per second (or Frames Per Second).

OpenVINO™ Model Server (OVMS) employs the Intel® Distribution of OpenVINO™ toolkit runtime
libraries and exposes a set of models via a convenient inference API over gRPC or HTTP/REST.
Its benchmark results are measured with the configuration of multiple-clients-single-server,
using two hardware platforms connected by ethernet. Network bandwidth depends on both, platforms
and models under investigation. It is set not to be a bottleneck for workload intensity. The
connection is dedicated only to measuring performance.

.. dropdown:: See more details about OVMS benchmark setup

   The benchmark setup for OVMS consists of four main parts:

   .. image:: ../assets/images/performance_benchmarks_ovms_02.png
      :alt: OVMS Benchmark Setup Diagram

   * **OpenVINO™ Model Server** is launched as a docker container on the server platform and it
     listens to (and answers) requests from clients. OpenVINO™ Model Server is run on the same
     system as the OpenVINO™ toolkit benchmark application in corresponding benchmarking. Models
     served by OpenVINO™ Model Server are located in a local file system mounted into the docker
     container. The OpenVINO™ Model Server instance communicates with other components via ports
     over a dedicated docker network.

   * **Clients** are run in separated physical machine referred to as client platform. Clients
     are implemented in Python3 programming language based on TensorFlow* API and they work as
     parallel processes. Each client waits for a response from OpenVINO™ Model Server before it
     will send a new next request. The role played by the clients is also verification of
     responses.

   * **Load balancer** works on the client platform in a docker container. HAProxy is used for
     this purpose. Its main role is counting of requests forwarded from clients to OpenVINO™
     Model Server, estimating its latency, and sharing this information by Prometheus service.
     The reason of locating the load balancer on the client site is to simulate real life
     scenario that includes impact of physical network on reported metrics.

   * **Execution Controller** is launched on the client platform. It is responsible for
     synchronization of the whole measurement process, downloading metrics from the load
     balancer, and presenting the final report of the execution.



.. raw:: html

   <h2>Test performance yourself</h2>

You can also test performance for your system yourself, following the guide on
:doc:`getting performance numbers <performance-benchmarks/getting-performance-numbers>`.

Performance of a particular application can also be evaluated virtually using
`Intel® DevCloud for the Edge <https://devcloud.intel.com/edge/>`__.
It is a remote development environment with access to Intel® hardware and the latest versions
of the Intel® Distribution of the OpenVINO™ Toolkit. To learn more about it, visit
`the website <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/devcloud/edge/overview.html>`__
or
`create an account <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/secure/forms/devcloud-enrollment/account-provisioning.html>`__.


.. raw:: html

   <h2>Disclaimers</h2>


* Intel® Distribution of OpenVINO™ toolkit performance results are based on release
  2024.1, as of April 17, 2024.

* OpenVINO Model Server performance results are based on release
  2024.0, as of March 15, 2024.

The results may not reflect all publicly available updates. Intel technologies' features and
benefits depend on system configuration and may require enabled hardware, software, or service
activation. Learn more at intel.com, or from the OEM or retailer.

See configuration disclosure for details. No product can be absolutely secure.
Performance varies by use, configuration and other factors. Learn more at
`www.intel.com/PerformanceIndex <https://www.intel.com/PerformanceIndex>`__.
Your costs and results may vary.
Intel optimizations, for Intel compilers or other products, may not optimize to the same degree
for non-Intel products.








.. raw:: html

   <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../_static/css/benchmark-banner.css">

.. container:: benchmark-banner

   Results may vary. For more information, see
   :doc:`F.A.Q. <./performance-benchmarks/performance-benchmarks-faq>`
   See :doc:`Legal Information <./additional-resources/legal-information>`.
